WIP Linq to xml changes as of 2019-11-27 (#16018)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/linq/creating-xml-trees.md

> ---

Reviewer: let's rename this to create-xml-trees.md

> title: "Creating XML Trees - .NET"

Reviewer: I'll actually add the suffix to the docfx.json file so let's remove it from here

```suggestion
title: "Create XML Trees"
```

ms.date: 12/01/2019
ms.assetid: cc74234a-0bac-4327-9c8c-5a2ead15b595
---

> # Creating XML trees (C# and Visual Basic)

Reviewer: Did we have a VB version of this article as well?

Author: Yes, but the title of the article is **Introduction to XML Literals in Visual Basic** (with some similar content in **Cloning vs. Attaching (Visual Basic**). In my design document I said that I would use these two VB documents for the content of Creating XML Trees.

> This topic provides information about creating XML trees in C# and Visual Basic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article provides information about creating XML trees in C# and Visual Basic.
```

> ## Creating XML trees in C&num;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create XML trees in C\#
```

This section provides information about creating XML trees in C#.  
  
For information about using the results of LINQ queries as the content for an <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>, see [Functional Construction (LINQ to XML)](./functional-construction-linq-to-xml.md).  
  
### Constructing elements

> The signatures of the <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> and <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XAttribute> constructors let you pass the contents of the element or attribute as arguments to the constructor. Because one of the constructors takes a variable number of arguments, you can pass any number of child elements. Of course, each of those child elements can contain their own child elements. For any element, you can add any number of attributes.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The signatures of the <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> and <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XAttribute> constructors let you pass the contents of the element or attribute as arguments to the constructor. Because one of the constructors takes a variable number of arguments, you can pass any number of child elements. Of course, each of those child elements can contain their own child elements. For any element, you can add any number of attributes.  
```

Author: Maira I don't understand this suggested change. I see that "signatures" is highlighted, but I don't see why. And I see a new blank line, but we are not putting blank lines after headings. Please advise.

Reviewer: The suggestion feature doesn't render Markdown well.

  
When adding <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XNode> (including <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>) or <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XAttribute> objects, if the new content has no parent, the objects are simply attached to the XML tree. If the new content already is parented, and is part of another XML tree, the new content is cloned, and the newly cloned content is attached to the XML tree. The last example in this topic demonstrates this.  
  
To create a `contacts`<xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>, you could use the following code:  
  
```csharp  
XElement contacts =  
    new XElement("Contacts",  
        new XElement("Contact",  
            new XElement("Name", "Patrick Hines"),   
            new XElement("Phone", "206-555-0144"),  
            new XElement("Address",  
                new XElement("Street1", "123 Main St"),  
                new XElement("City", "Mercer Island"),  
                new XElement("State", "WA"),  
                new XElement("Postal", "68042")  
            )  
        )  
    );  
```  
  
If indented properly, the code to construct <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> objects closely resembles the structure of the underlying XML.  
  
### XElement constructors  

> The <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> class uses the following constructors for functional construction. Note that there are some other constructors for <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>, but because they are not used for functional construction they are not listed here.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> class uses the following constructors for functional construction. Note that there are some other constructors for <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>, but because they are not used for functional construction they are not listed here.  
```

  
|Constructor|Description|  
|-----------------|-----------------|  
|`XElement(XName name, object content)`|Creates an <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>. The `name` parameter specifies the name of the element; `content` specifies the content of the element.|  
|`XElement(XName name)`|Creates an <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> with its <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XName> initialized to the specified name.|  
|`XElement(XName name, params object[] content)`|Creates an <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> with its <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XName> initialized to the specified name. The attributes and/or child elements are created from the contents of the parameter list.|  
  
The `content` parameter is extremely flexible. It supports any type of object that is a valid child of an <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>. The following rules apply to different types of objects passed in this parameter:  
  
- A string is added as text content.  

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I don't understand this change. Is it the blank line between list elements? Both the C# and the VB versions had this.

Reviewer: Yes, I was just suggesting to remove.

- An <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> is added as a child element.  

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- An <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XAttribute> is added as an attribute.  

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- An <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XProcessingInstruction>, <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XComment>, or <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XText> is added as child content.  

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- An <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable> is enumerated, and these rules are applied recursively to the results.  

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- For any other type, its `ToString` method is called and the result is added as text content.  
  

> #### Creating an XElement with content  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create an XElement with content
```

You can create an <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> that contains simple content with a single method call. To do this, specify the content as the second parameter, as follows:  
  
```csharp  
XElement n = new XElement("Customer", "Adventure Works");  
Console.WriteLine(n);  
```  
  
This example produces the following output:  
  
```xml  
<Customer>Adventure Works</Customer>  
```  
  
You can pass any type of object as the content. For example, the following code creates an element that contains a floating point number as content:  
  
```csharp  
XElement n = new XElement("Cost", 324.50);  
Console.WriteLine(n);  
```  
  
This example produces the following output:  
  
```xml  
<Cost>324.5</Cost>  
```  
  
The floating point number is boxed and passed in to the constructor. The boxed number is converted to a string and used as the content of the element.  
  

> #### Creating an XElement with a child element  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create an XElement with a child element

```

If you pass an instance of the <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> class for the content argument, the constructor creates an element with a child element:  
  
```csharp  
XElement shippingUnit = new XElement("ShippingUnit",  
    new XElement("Cost", 324.50)  
);  
Console.WriteLine(shippingUnit);  
```  
  
This example produces the following output:  
  
```xml  
<ShippingUnit>  
  <Cost>324.5</Cost>  
</ShippingUnit>  
```  
  

> #### Creating an XElement with multiple child elements  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create an XElement with multiple child elements

```

You can pass in a number of <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> objects for the content. Each of the <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement> objects is included as a child element.  
  
```csharp  
XElement address = new XElement("Address",  
    new XElement("Street1", "123 Main St"),  
    new XElement("City", "Mercer Island"),  
    new XElement("State", "WA"),  
    new XElement("Postal", "68042")  
);  
Console.WriteLine(address);  
```  
  
This example produces the following output:  
  
```xml  
<Address>  
  <Street1>123 Main St</Street1>  
  <City>Mercer Island</City>  
  <State>WA</State>  
  <Postal>68042</Postal>  
</Address>  
```  
  

> By extending the above example, you can create an entire XML tree, as follows:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By extending the previous example, you can create an entire XML tree, as follows:  
```

  
```csharp  
XElement contacts =  
    new XElement("Contacts",  
        new XElement("Contact",  
            new XElement("Name", "Patrick Hines"),                                                   
            new XElement("Phone", "206-555-0144"),  
            new XElement("Address",  
                new XElement("Street1", "123 Main St"),  
                new XElement("City", "Mercer Island"),  
                new XElement("State", "WA"),  
                new XElement("Postal", "68042")  
            )  
        )  
    );  
Console.WriteLine(contacts);  
```  
  
This example produces the following output:  
  
```xml  
<Contacts>  
  <Contact>  
    <Name>Patrick Hines</Name>  
    <Phone>206-555-0144</Phone>  
    <Address>  
      <Street1>123 Main St</Street1>  
      <City>Mercer Island</City>  
      <State>WA</State>  
      <Postal>68042</Postal>  
    </Address>  
  </Contact>  
</Contacts>  
```  

> #### Creating an XElement with an XAttribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create an XElement with an XAttribute

```

If you pass an instance of the <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XAttribute> class for the content argument, the constructor creates an element with an attribute:

```csharp  
XElement phone = new XElement("Phone",  
    new XAttribute("Type", "Home"),  
    "555-555-5555");  
Console.WriteLine(phone);  
```  
  
This example produces the following output:  
  
```xml  
<Phone Type="Home">555-555-5555</Phone>
```   

> #### Creating an empty element  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create an empty element

```

> To create an empty <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>, you do not pass any content to the constructor. The following example creates an empty element:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an empty <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>, don't pass any content to the constructor. The following example creates an empty element:  
```

  
```csharp  
XElement n = new XElement("Customer");  
Console.WriteLine(n);  
```  
  
This example produces the following output:  
  
```xml  
<Customer />  
```  
  
#### Attaching vs. cloning  

> As mentioned previously, when adding <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XNode> (including <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>) or <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XAttribute> objects, if the new content has no parent, the objects are simply attached to the XML tree. If the new content already is parented and is part of another XML tree, the new content is cloned, and the newly cloned content is attached to the XML tree.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

As mentioned previously, when adding <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XNode> (including <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XElement>) or <xref:System.Xml.Linq.XAttribute> objects, if the new content has no parent, the objects are simply attached to the XML tree. If the new content already is parented and is part of another XML tree, the new content is cloned, and the newly cloned content is attached to the XML tree.  
```

The following example demonstrates the behavior when you add a parented element to a tree, and when you add an element with no parent to a tree.

```csharp  
// Create a tree with a child element.  
XElement xmlTree1 = new XElement("Root",  
    new XElement("Child1", 1)  
);  
  
// Create an element that is not parented.  
XElement child2 = new XElement("Child2", 2);  
  
// Create a tree and add Child1 and Child2 to it.  
XElement xmlTree2 = new XElement("Root",  
    xmlTree1.Element("Child1"),  
    child2  
);  
  
// Compare Child1 identity.  
Console.WriteLine("Child1 was {0}",  
    xmlTree1.Element("Child1") == xmlTree2.Element("Child1") ?  
    "attached" : "cloned");  
  
// Compare Child2 identity.  
Console.WriteLine("Child2 was {0}",  
    child2 == xmlTree2.Element("Child2") ?  
    "attached" : "cloned");  

// The example displays the following output:  
//    Child1 was cloned  
//    Child2 was attached  
```

> ## Creating XML Trees in Visual Basic

Reviewer: Let's split this topic in two like we used to have before (one for C# and one for VB)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/visualstudio/visual-studio-2008/bb387100(v=vs.90)
